--> Restrict these server where to be:  This plugin allow us to run the build on slave server.

--> Email notification : This plugin is used to send out the emails to recipient list.like to team members,developers etc.

-->THERE ARE 4 WAYS TO TRIGGER THE BUILD IN JENKINS under build trigger plugin
1.	Build manually
2.	Trigger the build Remotely
3.	Trigger the build periodically
4.	Poll scm
5.	Build pipeline (for upstream and downstream jobs)

-->Build manually :      

-->Trigger the build Remotely: 
This option is enable you to trigger the build from other server by accessing special defriend URL.       

-->Trigger the build periodically:   this allow the build to trigger according to scheduled time 
like by using cron job (everyday at 8 am)or by using script. 

-->POLL SCM: Poll scm will check for the changes before triggering the build ,
if there are any  changes to the previous version then only build will be triggered

-->Build after other projects are built: In this dependency jobs are going to be triggered like downstream ,upstream jobs.

-->Upstaream and downstream: A job is dependent on the other job that is job A should be triggerd after completion of job B, 
in this case job B is the upstream job and job A is downstream job.For this we need to use the plugin like POST BUILD ACTIONS ? BUILD OTHER PROJECTS

--> Trigger parameterized build on other project: By using this plugins we can pass the job B (upstream) parameters to (downstream)  job A.
SSH REMOTE HOSTS:
Click on manage Jenkins   ?   configure system
This plugin is used in devops jobs (automation jobs) to trigger the build in remote servers by using shell command. 
For this we need to mention the following details
Hostname:
Port:
Username:
Passport/passphrase:
Keyfile:

DISCARD THE OLD BUILD :This option keeps the specified number of builds and deletes remaining builds.

THIS BUILD IS PARAMETARISED: This plugin configure what parameters your build takes.

EXECUTE THE CONCURRENT BUILDS IF NECESSARY: This will schedule and execute the concurrent builds if necessary.

SOURCE CODE MANAGEMENT:  By using this plugin we can specify svn or cvs or git repository URL.

BUILD ENVIRONMENT: in this pluggin we have options like 

Add time stamp to console output

Execute the shell script on remote host by using ssh

Copy the files into the jobs workspace before building
